identity/README.md, before:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-wip-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

# Identity

-----

**Abstract**

Identities are use for verification and access control of database entries. They often contain keys used to digitally sign data and serve as a composable way to distribute access to multiple devices without sharing any private data.

# Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Interface](#interface)
- [Validity](#validity)

## Introduction

Identities are used to verify entry signatures and

## Interface

The identity interface is defined:


###### see cbor [encoding specification](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8949.html#name-specification-of-the-cbor-e) and [tag 42](https://github.com/ipld/cid-cbor/)

```
  {
    id: type 2
    auth: tag 42
  }
```

Identity formats do not need to match the interface at the encoding level. When decoded and verified by the identity format, this interface must be exposed.

The `id` field is a key used to control access. It does not need to be the signing key used by the identity. In most cases it will be a separate signing key used to sign other identities, giving them access under one identity id.

The `auth` field is the cid to the identity object. It is used in some entry formats as a reference to the identity, to deduplicate data.

Commit message:

link to entry and identity formats

identity/README.md, after:

![](https://img.shields.io/badge/status-wip-orange.svg?style=flat-square)

# Identity

-----

**Abstract**

Identities are use for verification and access control of database entries. They often contain keys used to digitally sign data and serve as a composable way to distribute access to multiple devices without sharing any private data.

# Table of Contents

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Formats](#Formats)
- [Interface](#interface)
- [Validity](#validity)

## Introduction

Identities are used to verify entry signatures and contain a key for access control. Every entry will have or contain a reference to an identity.

## Formats

> List of spec'd identity formats

- [orbitdb](./orbitdb)

## Interface

The identity interface is defined:


###### see cbor [encoding specification](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8949.html#name-specification-of-the-cbor-e) and [tag 42](https://github.com/ipld/cid-cbor/)

```
  {
    id: type 2
    auth: tag 42
  }
```

Identity formats do not need to match the interface at the encoding level. When decoded and verified by the identity format, this interface must be exposed.

The `id` field is a key used to control access. It does not need to be the signing key used by the identity. In most cases it will be a separate signing key used to sign other identities, giving them access under one identity id.

The `auth` field is the cid to the identity object. It is used in some entry formats as a reference to the identity, to deduplicate data.
